Release Plan:

  Numbering scheme? Keep it simple: each upgrade iteration increments
  the number by one-tenth (1.5, 1.6, 1.7 etc.). If a 'b' appears after
  the number (e.g. 1.5b), then it's the beta test copy, not the
  released copy.


Assistance:

  If you want assistance or let me know that some of these features
  are more imporant to you than others, send a note to
  nsopenssl@scottg.net.


Versions:


nsopenssl 1.1:

 The current released version. If you want to see how we got to this
 point, look in the ChangeLog.


next:

 * - investigate the keep-alive problem with MSIE; investigate how
     Apache uses ssl-unclean-shutdown, downgrade-1.0,
     force-reponse-1.0

 * - verify that SGC is working.

 * - investigate IntermediateChainFile implementation and implement
     feature in mod_ssl where you can allow connections at less than
     128-bit but force the browser to bump up to 128-bit for the actual
     communication.

 * - set 'info version' string dynamically from the OpenSSL library

 * - revisit Tcl command naming; commands may need to be
     renamed/pushed down an 'arg' level to support upcoming features;
     better to do it now before most people use the Tcl commands

 * - review internal version id and alter to conform to the numbering
     convention shown at the top of this file

 * - add config option to set minimum cipher strength server-wide; add
     Tcl commands/config options to allow requiring minimum cipher
     strengths for specified url paths; set config option to allow Tcl
     interface to override config strength option(s)

 * - add Tcl commands/config options to specify which url paths
     require a valid client cert.

 * - add ability to specify verification depth for both client and
     server modes

 * - add ability to have server pass intermediate CA in the cert chain
     when offering its cert (?).

 * - add crl; should optionally pass through nsopenssl and be handled
     by the app

 * - refresh the ssl.ca dir at startup

 * - add ability for server to return nice error page to client when
     they've connected to the HTTPS port with HTTP; maybe
     even a nice link they can click on, and/or a redirect to the same
     page via HTTPS

 * - add ErrorPage options to the config file so admin can specify
     what urls to redirect to when errors occur

 * - add key pair and csr generation commands

 * - add support for multiple virtual servers; may require changes to
     the server core to allow a virtual server to have it's own IP
     address (is this already in the core?); note: If you have three
     virtual servers in OpenNSD/AOLserver 4.x, you must use the same
     SSL cert for each. Why?  Because the nsopenssl module has no way
     of knowing which server you're trying to connect to apriori so it
     cannot select a different server cert. Only way to get around
     this is to have each virtual server have it's own IP address, set
     nsopenssl to map an IP to a server certificate and off you
     go. You can (usually) set multiple IPs to one network card, or
     have multiple network cards on your system.

