This is a regular expressions library. It is based on a decoupling
of the surface syntax used to specify regular expressions and the
backend engine that implements the matcher.  An abstract syntax is used
to communicate between the front end and the back end of the system,


                      USING REGULAR EXPRESSIONS

Given a structure S1 describing a surface syntax and a structure S2 
describing a matching engine, a regular expression package can be
defined by applying the functor: 

  RegExpFn (structure P=S1  structure E=S2) : REGEXP

To match a regular expression, one first needs to compile a
representation in the surface syntax. The type of a compiled regular
expression is given in the REGEXP signature as: 

  type regexp

Two functions are provided in
the REGEXP signature:

  val compile : (char,'a) StringCvt.reader -> (regexp, 'a) StringCvt.reader
  val compileString : string -> regexp  

The function compile is a regexp reader, while compileString is
specialized to strings.

Once a regular expression has been compiled, three functions are
provided to perform the matching:

   val find   : 
   val prefix :   [[ See types in Glue/regexp-sig.sml ]]
   val match  : 

The function find returns a reader that searches a stream and attempts
to match the given regular expression. The function prefix returns a
reader that attempts to match the regular expression at the current
position in the stream. The function match takes a list of regular
expressions and functions and returns a reader that attempts to match
one of the regular expressions at the current position in the
stream. The function corresponding to the matched regular expression
is invoked on the matching information.


                         MATCHING INFORMATION

Once a match is found, it is returned as a match_tree datatype
(defined in Glue/match-tree.sml). This is a hierarchical structure
describing the matches of the various subexpressions appearing in the
matched regular expression. A match for an expression is a record
containing the position of the match and its length. The root of the
structure always described the outermost match (the whole string
matched by the regular expression). See the file Glue/match-tree.sml
for more details. 

                               ROADMAP

FrontEnd/     Implementation of various surface syntaxes
BackEnd/      Implementation of various matching engines
Glue/         Glue code


                              FRONT ENDS

A single surface syntax is currently implemented, providing an AWK
syntax to describe regular expressions. See the file
FrontEnd/awk-syntax.sml for a description of the actual syntax.


                              BACK ENDS

Two matching engines are implemented:
1) A backtracking engine (BackEnd/bt-engine.sml), that provides full
   submatching information. Slow, low memory footprint, low startup
   cost. 
2) An automaton-based engine (BackEnd/dfa-engine.sml), that provides
   only top-level matching information (the string matched). Fast,
   but memory-intensive and high startup cost (the cost of
   constructing the automaton in the first place)

